src/spec/authentication_service.md, before:

# Authentication Service (AS)

In this chapter, we detail the different functionalities of the authentication service. See the sub-chapter on [credentials](authentication_service/credentials.md) for more details on the credential types referenced in this chapter.

For an overview over the security of the AS see [here](./authentication_service/security_guarantees.md).

## Configuration

The AS is configurable by use of the following configuration variables:

* **Anonymous token time-frame:** The amount of time which each client has to wait until it can obtain new anonymous authentication tokens.
* **Default token allowance:** The default amount of anonymous authentication tokens issued to each user in the anonymous token time-frame.
* **Maximal QS client record age:** Maximal age of an inactive client entry.
  * Default: 90d
* **Maximal number of requested messages:** Maximal number of messages that will be returned to a client requesting messages from a direct queue.

## AS state

The AS generally keeps the following state

* **User entries:** A database with one entry for each user account. Each entry is indexed by the user's [user id](glossary.md#user-id-uid) and contains a number of sub-entries.
  * **OPAQUE user record:** The OPAQUE protocol artifact that allows the user to authenticate itself via its password in queries to the AS.
  * **Encrypted user profile:** The user's encrypted [user profile](./glossary.md#user-profile).
  * **Client entries:** Sub entries for the users' clients. Indexed by the clients' [client id](glossary.md#client-id-cid).
    * **Client credential:** The [credential](authentication_service/credentials.md#client-credentials) of the client.
    * **Token issuance records:** A record of how many tokens were issued to the client.
    * **Connection packages:** Packages uploaded by the client and used in the [connection establishment process](authentication_service/connection_establishment.md).
    * **Direct queue:** A queue similar to the fan-out queues on the QS. Used to enqueue encrypted [connection establishment packages](./authentication_service/connection_establishment.md).
      * **Activity time:** Timestamp indicating the last time a client has fetched messages from the queue.
      * **Queue encryption key material:** Key material to perform [queue encryption](./queuing_service/queue_encryption.md).
        * **Queue encryption key:** HPKE public key of the queue owner
        * **Encryption ratchet key:** Symmetric key used to derive queue encryption keys.
      * **Current sequence number:** The current message sequence number.
      * **Queued messages:** A sequence of ciphertexts containing the messages in the queue. Each incoming message is [encrypted](./queuing_service/queue_encryption.md) and is assigned the current sequence number, after which the current sequence number is incremented.
* **Alias entries:** Data not linked to user ids and instead indexed by [Alias](./glossary.md#alias).
  * **Alias:** The Alias associated with the direct queue.
  * **Direct queue:** A queue similar to the fan-out queues on the QS. Used to enqueue encrypted [connection establishment packages](./authentication_service/connection_establishment.md).
    * **Activity time:** Timestamp indicating the last time a client has fetched messages from the queue.
    * **Queue encryption key material:** Key material to perform [queue encryption](./queuing_service/queue_encryption.md).
      * **Queue encryption key:** HPKE public key of the queue owner
      * **Encryption ratchet key:** Symmetric key used to derive queue encryption keys.
    * **Current sequence number:** The current message sequence number.
    * **Queued messages:** A sequence of ciphertexts containing the messages in the queue. Each incoming message is [encrypted](./queuing_service/queue_encryption.md) and is assigned the current sequence number, after which the current sequence number is incremented.
  * **Connection package payloads:** Packages uploaded by the client and used in the [connection establishment process](authentication_service/connection_establishment.md).
* **Ephemeral OPAQUE DB:** An in-memory database that stores user-name or client-id indexed entries
  * **Client credential:** Credential of the client that is being added to an existing user entry, or the initial client of a new user entry.
  * **Optional OPAQUE state:** OPAQUE server state, only present in case of the OPAQUE online AKE flow, i.e. if a client performs 2FA, but not during an OPAQUE setup.
* **AS credential key material:** Credentials that can be retrieved by clients, as well as the private key material used by the AS to sign client [CSRs](authentication_service/credentials.md#client-credential-signing-requests).
* **AS OPAQUE key material:** OPRF seed, server public key and server private key as required for the server to perform OPAQUE registration a login flows with clients.
* **AS Privacy Pass key material:** server public key and server private key as required for the server to process privacy pass token requests.

## Authentication

Some endpoints do not require authentication and are marked with **None**:
* **None:** For endpoints that are meant to be publicly accessible, e.g. user account registration

There are four modes of authentication for endpoints on the AS:

* **Client Credential:** A signature over a time stamp using the signature key in the calling client's ClientCredential. The request additionally contains the calling client's ClientCredential.
* **Client Password:** An OPAQUE login flow.
* **Client 2FA:** The same as **Client Credential**, but additionally performing an [OPAQUE](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque/) login flow
* **Alias auth key:** A signature over a time stamp using the alias auth key. The request additionally contains the calling client's alias.

If not explicitly mentioned, all endpoints additionally require the client to provide a valid privacy pass token as part of the request.

## Initiate 2FA operation

The client has to query this endpoint before it can query an endpoint that requires **Client 2FA** authentication. Note that this endpoint is not meant to be used with endpoints that require **Client Password** authentication such as the client addition endpoint. Similarly, this endpoint is not meant to be used to set up 2FA (see [here](./authentication_service.md#initialize-user-registration) instead).

```rust
struct Initiate2FaAuthenticationParams {
  opaque_ke1: OpaqueKe1,
}
```

The AS then performs the following steps:

* perform the [first (server side) step in the OPAQUE online AKE handshake](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque-09.html#name-online-authenticated-key-exc)
* store the resulting OPAQUE `server_state` in its ephemeral DB
* return the OPAQUE response to the client

```rust
struct Initiate2FaAuthenticationResponse {
  opaque_ke2: OpaqueKe2,
}
```

## Authentication

* Client Credential

## Initialize user registration

The user registration functionality requires the user to perform an [OPAQUE registration flow](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque-09.html#name-offline-registration) with the homeserver. Note, that the user's chosen user id is part of the `client_csr`.

```rust
struct InitUserRegistrationParams {
  client_csr: ClientCsr,
  opaque_registration_request: OpaqueRegistrationRequest,
}
```

The AS then performs the following steps:

* check if a user entry with the name given in the `client_csr` already exists
* validate the [`client_csr`](./authentication_service/credentials.md#client-credential-signing-requests)
* perform the [first (server side) step in the OPAQUE registration handshake](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque-09.html#name-createregistrationrequest)
* sign the CSR
* store the freshly signed ClientCredential in the ephemeral DB
* return the ClientCredential to the client along with the OPAQUE response.

```rust
struct InitUserRegistrationResponse {
  client_credential: ClientCredential,
  opaque_registration_response: OpaqueRegistrationResponse,
}
```

After receiving the response, the client must call the [finish user registration endpoint](./authentication_service.md#finish-user-registration).

### Authentication

* None
* No Privacy Pass token required

## Finish user registration

This endpoint allows the user to finish its registration.

```rust
struct FinishUserRegistrationParams {
  queue_encryption_key: HpkePublicKey,
  initial_queue_ratchet_key: RatchetKey,
  connection_packages: Vec<ConnectionPackage>,
  opaque_registration_record: OpaqueRegistrationRecord,
}
```

The AS performs the following actions:

* look up the initial client's ClientCredential in the ephemeral DB based on the `user_id` in the client's credential included in the request as part of Client 2FA authentication
* authenticate the request using the signature key in the ClientCredential
* check (again) if the user id already exists
* create the user entry with the information given in the request
* create the initial client entry
* delete the entry in the ephemeral OPAQUE DB

### Authentication

* Client 2FA (the AS has to successfully complete the OPAQUE handshake and the client needs to provide Client Credential authentication using the signature key of the initial client)

## Update user profile

Allows users to update their [user profile](./glossary.md#user-profile). The profile is stored on the AS encrypted under the user's [user profile encryption key](./glossary.md#user-profile-encryption-key).

```rust
struct UpdateUserProfileParams {
  new_user_profile: Vec<u8>,
}
```

The AS overwrites the existing user profile ciphertext with the new one. The target user's ID is derived from the client's ClientCredential.

### Authentication

* Client credential

## Fetch user profile

Fetch the user profile of the user with the given user id.

```rust
struct UserProfileParams {
  user_id: UserId,
}
```

The AS responds with the encrypted user profile of the user with the given id.

```rust
struct UserProfileResponse {
  user_profile: Vec<u8>,
}
```

### Authentication

* None

## Upload user id connection packages

Upload the given encrypted [connection packages](authentication_service/connection_establishment.md#connection-group-creation) to the user entry with the given user id.

```rust
struct UploadUserIdPackages {
  connection_package_ctxt: Vec<Vec<u8>>,
}
```

### Authentication

* Client credential

## Get user id connection package

Given a user id, get a [connection package](authentication_service/connection_establishment.md#connection-group-creation) for the user's client.

```rust
struct UserClientsParams {
  user_id: UserId,
}
```

The AS returns the following information.

```rust
struct UserClientsResponse {
  connection_package: ConnectionPackage,
}
```

### Authentication

* None

## User account deletion

Delete the user account with the given user id.

```rust
struct DeleteUserParams {
  opaque_ke3: OpaqueKe3,
}
```

The AS performs the following actions:

* look up the OPAQUE `server_state` in the ephemeral DB based on the `client_id` in the client's credential included in the request as part of Client 2FA authentication
* authenticate the request using the signature key in the ClientCredential
* perform the `ServerFinish` step of the OPAQUE online AKE flow
* delete the user entry
* delete the entry in the ephemeral OPAQUE DB

### Authentication

* Client 2FA

## Dequeue messages

Dequeue messages from a client's direct queue, starting with the message with the given sequence number.

```rust
struct DequeueMessagesParams {
  sequence_number_start: u64,
  max_message_number: u64,
}
```

The AS deletes messages older than the given sequence number and returns messages starting with the given sequence number. The maximum number of messages returned this way is the smallest of the following values.

* The number of messages remaining in the queue
* The value of the `max_message_number` field in the request
* The AS configured maximum number of returned messages

### Authentication

* Client Credential

## Enqueue message

Enqueue a message into a client's direct queue.

```rust
struct EnqueueMessageParams {
  client_id: ClientId,
  connection_establishment_ctxt: Vec<u8>,
}
```

### Authentication

* None

## Get AS credentials

Get the currently valid [AS credentials](authentication_service/credentials.md#as-credentials) and [AS intermediate credentials](authentication_service/credentials.md#as-intermediate-credentials).

```rust
struct AsCredentialsResponse {
  as_credentials: Vec<AsCredentials>,
  as_intermediate_credentials: Vec<AsIntermediateCredential>,
  revoked_certs: Vec<Fingerprint>,
}
```

### Authentication

* None

## Register alias

Register the given alias with the AS. After registration, the calling client can upload connection packages and dequeue messages from the queue associated with the alias.

```rust
struct RegisterAlias {
  alias: Alias
  alias_auth_key: AliasAuthkey,
}
```

The AS performs the following actions:

* Check that the alias is not already registered
* Create an alias entry with the given alias and auth key

### Authentication

* None

## Delete alias

Delete the alias entry with the given alias, as well as the associated queue and connection packages.

```rust
struct DeleteAlias {
  alias: Alias,
}
```

### Authentication

* Alias auth key

## Dequeue alias messages

Dequeue messages from an alias direct queue, starting with the message with the given sequence number.

```rust
struct DequeueAliasMessagesParams {
  alias: Alias,
  sequence_number_start: u64,
  max_message_number: u64,
}
```

The AS deletes messages older than the given sequence number and returns messages starting with the given sequence number. The maximum number of messages returned this way is the smallest of the following values.

* The number of messages remaining in the queue
* The value of the `max_message_number` field in the request
* The AS configured maximum number of returned messages

### Authentication

* Alias auth key

## Enqueue alias messages

Enqueue a message into a client's direct queue.

```rust
struct EnqueueAliasMessageParams {
  alias: Alias,
  connection_establishment_ctxt: Vec<u8>,
}
```


### Authentication

* None

## Upload alias connection package payloads

Upload the given [connection package payloads](authentication_service/connection_establishment.md#connection-group-creation) to the alias entry with the given alias. Note that in contrast to the similar functionality for user ids, this endpoint only takes the payloads of the connection packages as input.

```rust
struct UploadAliasPackages {
  alias: Alias,
  connection_package_ctxt: Vec<ConnectionPackagePayload>,
}
```

### Authentication

* Alias auth key

## Get alias connection package

Given an alias, get a [connection package](authentication_service/connection_establishment.md#connection-group-creation) for the user's client.

```rust
struct AliasClientsParams {
  alias: Alias,
}
```

The AS returns the following information.

```rust
struct AliasClientsResponse {
  connection_package: ConnectionPackagePayload,
}
```

### Authentication

* None


## Token Issuance

This endpoints allows both local clients and clients of federated homeservers to retrieve Privacy Pass tokens which they can then redeem to interact with the local DS.

```rust
struct RequestToken {
  token_request: TokenRequest,
}
```

`TokenRequest` represents a Privacy Pass token request. The server processes the request, checks if the client sufficient allowance left, reduces the allowance and responds with the tokens.

```rust
struct TokenResponse {
  tokens: Vec<Token>
}
```


### Rate-limiting

Token issuance is the main way of rate-limiting queries to the endpoints of the DS of a homeserver, which means that the AS should rate-limit token issuance based on a per-client basis, essentially giving each client a certain allowance of tokens.

If the calling client is a federated client, rate-limiting should also occur on a per-homeserver (or per homeserver domain) basis to protect against malicious or negligent homeservers that allow an attacker to register a large number of clients.

### Authentication

For this endpoint, the AS also accepts authentication by federated clients. If the `client_id` in the client credential indicates that the client belongs to a federated homeserver, the AS looks up the authentication key material of that client's AS using the [corresponding endpoint](./authentication_service.md#get-as-credentials), or looks the key material up in its local cache. The AS then uses that key material to verify the query.

* Client Credential
* No Privacy Pass token required (obviously, as this is about obtaining tokens)

Commit message:

AS: Explicitly mention Connection Establishment messages for AS queues
The direct user queue and the alias queue may only be used for
Connection Establishment.
This helps to avoid confusing the queues for application messages (i.e.
actual text messages users want to exchange).

src/spec/authentication_service.md, after:

# Authentication Service (AS)

In this chapter, we detail the different functionalities of the authentication service. See the sub-chapter on [credentials](authentication_service/credentials.md) for more details on the credential types referenced in this chapter.

For an overview over the security of the AS see [here](./authentication_service/security_guarantees.md).

## Configuration

The AS is configurable by use of the following configuration variables:

* **Anonymous token time-frame:** The amount of time which each client has to wait until it can obtain new anonymous authentication tokens.
* **Default token allowance:** The default amount of anonymous authentication tokens issued to each user in the anonymous token time-frame.
* **Maximal QS client record age:** Maximal age of an inactive client entry.
  * Default: 90d
* **Maximal number of requested messages:** Maximal number of messages that will be returned to a client requesting messages from a direct queue.

## AS state

The AS generally keeps the following state

* **User entries:** A database with one entry for each user account. Each entry is indexed by the user's [user id](glossary.md#user-id-uid) and contains a number of sub-entries.
  * **OPAQUE user record:** The OPAQUE protocol artifact that allows the user to authenticate itself via its password in queries to the AS.
  * **Encrypted user profile:** The user's encrypted [user profile](./glossary.md#user-profile).
  * **Client entries:** Sub entries for the users' clients. Indexed by the clients' [client id](glossary.md#client-id-cid).
    * **Client credential:** The [credential](authentication_service/credentials.md#client-credentials) of the client.
    * **Token issuance records:** A record of how many tokens were issued to the client.
    * **Connection packages:** Packages uploaded by the client and used in the [connection establishment process](authentication_service/connection_establishment.md).
    * **Direct queue:** A queue similar to the fan-out queues on the QS. Used to enqueue encrypted [connection establishment packages](./authentication_service/connection_establishment.md).
      * **Activity time:** Timestamp indicating the last time a client has fetched messages from the queue.
      * **Queue encryption key material:** Key material to perform [queue encryption](./queuing_service/queue_encryption.md).
        * **Queue encryption key:** HPKE public key of the queue owner
        * **Encryption ratchet key:** Symmetric key used to derive queue encryption keys.
      * **Current sequence number:** The current message sequence number.
      * **Queued messages:** A sequence of ciphertexts containing the messages in the queue. Each incoming message is [encrypted](./queuing_service/queue_encryption.md) and is assigned the current sequence number, after which the current sequence number is incremented.
* **Alias entries:** Data not linked to user ids and instead indexed by [Alias](./glossary.md#alias).
  * **Alias:** The Alias associated with the direct queue.
  * **Direct queue:** A queue similar to the fan-out queues on the QS. Used to enqueue encrypted [connection establishment packages](./authentication_service/connection_establishment.md).
    * **Activity time:** Timestamp indicating the last time a client has fetched messages from the queue.
    * **Queue encryption key material:** Key material to perform [queue encryption](./queuing_service/queue_encryption.md).
      * **Queue encryption key:** HPKE public key of the queue owner
      * **Encryption ratchet key:** Symmetric key used to derive queue encryption keys.
    * **Current sequence number:** The current message sequence number.
    * **Queued messages:** A sequence of ciphertexts containing the messages in the queue. Each incoming message is [encrypted](./queuing_service/queue_encryption.md) and is assigned the current sequence number, after which the current sequence number is incremented.
  * **Connection package payloads:** Packages uploaded by the client and used in the [connection establishment process](authentication_service/connection_establishment.md).
* **Ephemeral OPAQUE DB:** An in-memory database that stores user-name or client-id indexed entries
  * **Client credential:** Credential of the client that is being added to an existing user entry, or the initial client of a new user entry.
  * **Optional OPAQUE state:** OPAQUE server state, only present in case of the OPAQUE online AKE flow, i.e. if a client performs 2FA, but not during an OPAQUE setup.
* **AS credential key material:** Credentials that can be retrieved by clients, as well as the private key material used by the AS to sign client [CSRs](authentication_service/credentials.md#client-credential-signing-requests).
* **AS OPAQUE key material:** OPRF seed, server public key and server private key as required for the server to perform OPAQUE registration a login flows with clients.
* **AS Privacy Pass key material:** server public key and server private key as required for the server to process privacy pass token requests.

## Authentication

Some endpoints do not require authentication and are marked with **None**:
* **None:** For endpoints that are meant to be publicly accessible, e.g. user account registration

There are four modes of authentication for endpoints on the AS:

* **Client Credential:** A signature over a time stamp using the signature key in the calling client's ClientCredential. The request additionally contains the calling client's ClientCredential.
* **Client Password:** An OPAQUE login flow.
* **Client 2FA:** The same as **Client Credential**, but additionally performing an [OPAQUE](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque/) login flow
* **Alias auth key:** A signature over a time stamp using the alias auth key. The request additionally contains the calling client's alias.

If not explicitly mentioned, all endpoints additionally require the client to provide a valid privacy pass token as part of the request.

## Initiate 2FA operation

The client has to query this endpoint before it can query an endpoint that requires **Client 2FA** authentication. Note that this endpoint is not meant to be used with endpoints that require **Client Password** authentication such as the client addition endpoint. Similarly, this endpoint is not meant to be used to set up 2FA (see [here](./authentication_service.md#initialize-user-registration) instead).

```rust
struct Initiate2FaAuthenticationParams {
  opaque_ke1: OpaqueKe1,
}
```

The AS then performs the following steps:

* perform the [first (server side) step in the OPAQUE online AKE handshake](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque-09.html#name-online-authenticated-key-exc)
* store the resulting OPAQUE `server_state` in its ephemeral DB
* return the OPAQUE response to the client

```rust
struct Initiate2FaAuthenticationResponse {
  opaque_ke2: OpaqueKe2,
}
```

## Authentication

* Client Credential

## Initialize user registration

The user registration functionality requires the user to perform an [OPAQUE registration flow](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque-09.html#name-offline-registration) with the homeserver. Note, that the user's chosen user id is part of the `client_csr`.

```rust
struct InitUserRegistrationParams {
  client_csr: ClientCsr,
  opaque_registration_request: OpaqueRegistrationRequest,
}
```

The AS then performs the following steps:

* check if a user entry with the name given in the `client_csr` already exists
* validate the [`client_csr`](./authentication_service/credentials.md#client-credential-signing-requests)
* perform the [first (server side) step in the OPAQUE registration handshake](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque-09.html#name-createregistrationrequest)
* sign the CSR
* store the freshly signed ClientCredential in the ephemeral DB
* return the ClientCredential to the client along with the OPAQUE response.

```rust
struct InitUserRegistrationResponse {
  client_credential: ClientCredential,
  opaque_registration_response: OpaqueRegistrationResponse,
}
```

After receiving the response, the client must call the [finish user registration endpoint](./authentication_service.md#finish-user-registration).

### Authentication

* None
* No Privacy Pass token required

## Finish user registration

This endpoint allows the user to finish its registration.

```rust
struct FinishUserRegistrationParams {
  queue_encryption_key: HpkePublicKey,
  initial_queue_ratchet_key: RatchetKey,
  connection_packages: Vec<ConnectionPackage>,
  opaque_registration_record: OpaqueRegistrationRecord,
}
```

The AS performs the following actions:

* look up the initial client's ClientCredential in the ephemeral DB based on the `user_id` in the client's credential included in the request as part of Client 2FA authentication
* authenticate the request using the signature key in the ClientCredential
* check (again) if the user id already exists
* create the user entry with the information given in the request
* create the initial client entry
* delete the entry in the ephemeral OPAQUE DB

### Authentication

* Client 2FA (the AS has to successfully complete the OPAQUE handshake and the client needs to provide Client Credential authentication using the signature key of the initial client)

## Update user profile

Allows users to update their [user profile](./glossary.md#user-profile). The profile is stored on the AS encrypted under the user's [user profile encryption key](./glossary.md#user-profile-encryption-key).

```rust
struct UpdateUserProfileParams {
  new_user_profile: Vec<u8>,
}
```

The AS overwrites the existing user profile ciphertext with the new one. The target user's ID is derived from the client's ClientCredential.

### Authentication

* Client credential

## Fetch user profile

Fetch the user profile of the user with the given user id.

```rust
struct UserProfileParams {
  user_id: UserId,
}
```

The AS responds with the encrypted user profile of the user with the given id.

```rust
struct UserProfileResponse {
  user_profile: Vec<u8>,
}
```

### Authentication

* None

## Upload user id connection packages

Upload the given encrypted [connection packages](authentication_service/connection_establishment.md#connection-group-creation) to the user entry with the given user id.

```rust
struct UploadUserIdPackages {
  connection_package_ctxt: Vec<Vec<u8>>,
}
```

### Authentication

* Client credential

## Get user id connection package

Given a user id, get a [connection package](authentication_service/connection_establishment.md#connection-group-creation) for the user's client.

```rust
struct UserClientsParams {
  user_id: UserId,
}
```

The AS returns the following information.

```rust
struct UserClientsResponse {
  connection_package: ConnectionPackage,
}
```

### Authentication

* None

## User account deletion

Delete the user account with the given user id.

```rust
struct DeleteUserParams {
  opaque_ke3: OpaqueKe3,
}
```

The AS performs the following actions:

* look up the OPAQUE `server_state` in the ephemeral DB based on the `client_id` in the client's credential included in the request as part of Client 2FA authentication
* authenticate the request using the signature key in the ClientCredential
* perform the `ServerFinish` step of the OPAQUE online AKE flow
* delete the user entry
* delete the entry in the ephemeral OPAQUE DB

### Authentication

* Client 2FA

## Dequeue messages

Dequeue Connection Establishment messages from a client's direct queue, starting with the message with the given sequence number.

```rust
struct DequeueMessagesParams {
  sequence_number_start: u64,
  max_message_number: u64,
}
```

The AS deletes messages older than the given sequence number and returns messages starting with the given sequence number. The maximum number of messages returned this way is the smallest of the following values.

* The number of messages remaining in the queue
* The value of the `max_message_number` field in the request
* The AS configured maximum number of returned messages

### Authentication

* Client Credential

## Enqueue message

Enqueue a Connection Establishment message into a client's direct queue.

```rust
struct EnqueueMessageParams {
  client_id: ClientId,
  connection_establishment_ctxt: Vec<u8>,
}
```

### Authentication

* None

## Get AS credentials

Get the currently valid [AS credentials](authentication_service/credentials.md#as-credentials) and [AS intermediate credentials](authentication_service/credentials.md#as-intermediate-credentials).

```rust
struct AsCredentialsResponse {
  as_credentials: Vec<AsCredentials>,
  as_intermediate_credentials: Vec<AsIntermediateCredential>,
  revoked_certs: Vec<Fingerprint>,
}
```

### Authentication

* None

## Register alias

Register the given alias with the AS. After registration, the calling client can upload connection packages and dequeue messages from the queue associated with the alias.

```rust
struct RegisterAlias {
  alias: Alias
  alias_auth_key: AliasAuthkey,
}
```

The AS performs the following actions:

* Check that the alias is not already registered
* Create an alias entry with the given alias and auth key

### Authentication

* None

## Delete alias

Delete the alias entry with the given alias, as well as the associated queue and connection packages.

```rust
struct DeleteAlias {
  alias: Alias,
}
```

### Authentication

* Alias auth key

## Dequeue alias messages

Dequeue Connection Establishment messages from an alias direct queue, starting with the message with the given sequence number.

```rust
struct DequeueAliasMessagesParams {
  alias: Alias,
  sequence_number_start: u64,
  max_message_number: u64,
}
```

The AS deletes Connection Establishment messages older than the given sequence number and returns messages starting with the given sequence number. The maximum number of messages returned this way is the smallest of the following values.

* The number of messages remaining in the queue
* The value of the `max_message_number` field in the request
* The AS configured maximum number of returned messages

### Authentication

* Alias auth key

## Enqueue alias messages

Enqueue a Connection Establishment message into a client's alias queue.

```rust
struct EnqueueAliasMessageParams {
  alias: Alias,
  connection_establishment_ctxt: Vec<u8>,
}
```


### Authentication

* None

## Upload alias connection package payloads

Upload the given [connection package payloads](authentication_service/connection_establishment.md#connection-group-creation) to the alias entry with the given alias. Note that in contrast to the similar functionality for user ids, this endpoint only takes the payloads of the connection packages as input.

```rust
struct UploadAliasPackages {
  alias: Alias,
  connection_package_ctxt: Vec<ConnectionPackagePayload>,
}
```

### Authentication

* Alias auth key

## Get alias connection package

Given an alias, get a [connection package](authentication_service/connection_establishment.md#connection-group-creation) for the user's client.

```rust
struct AliasClientsParams {
  alias: Alias,
}
```

The AS returns the following information.

```rust
struct AliasClientsResponse {
  connection_package: ConnectionPackagePayload,
}
```

### Authentication

* None


## Token Issuance

This endpoints allows both local clients and clients of federated homeservers to retrieve Privacy Pass tokens which they can then redeem to interact with the local DS.

```rust
struct RequestToken {
  token_request: TokenRequest,
}
```

`TokenRequest` represents a Privacy Pass token request. The server processes the request, checks if the client sufficient allowance left, reduces the allowance and responds with the tokens.

```rust
struct TokenResponse {
  tokens: Vec<Token>
}
```


### Rate-limiting

Token issuance is the main way of rate-limiting queries to the endpoints of the DS of a homeserver, which means that the AS should rate-limit token issuance based on a per-client basis, essentially giving each client a certain allowance of tokens.

If the calling client is a federated client, rate-limiting should also occur on a per-homeserver (or per homeserver domain) basis to protect against malicious or negligent homeservers that allow an attacker to register a large number of clients.

### Authentication

For this endpoint, the AS also accepts authentication by federated clients. If the `client_id` in the client credential indicates that the client belongs to a federated homeserver, the AS looks up the authentication key material of that client's AS using the [corresponding endpoint](./authentication_service.md#get-as-credentials), or looks the key material up in its local cache. The AS then uses that key material to verify the query.

* Client Credential
* No Privacy Pass token required (obviously, as this is about obtaining tokens)
